= magikku

Ruby bindings for libmagic(3)

There are other variations of this binding. This one was written to ensure all features 
of the library were bound correctly (including compiling and checking magic databases)
as well as to ensure compatability on different ruby environments.

Magikku includes FFI bindings as well as native ruby bindings.

== Synopsis

Here's a basic example identifying file contents.

  #!/usr/bin/env ruby

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'magikku'

  puts "This file is: " << Magikku.file(__FILE__)
  puts "Mime Type:    " << Magikku.file(__FILE__, :flags => Magikku::Flags::MIME)


... or string contents... 

  #!/usr/bin/env ruby

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'magikku'

  dat = STDIN.read
  puts "Data is:   " << Magikku.string(dat)
  puts "Mime Type: " << Magikku.string(dat, :flags => Magikku::Flags::MIME)

Sometimes it's better to initialize a single object to reuse for lots of files:

  #!/usr/bin/env ruby

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'magikku'

  def ident(magik, f) 
    magik.flags = Magikku::Flags::NONE
    print "#{f} (#{magik.file(f)}) "
    magik.flags = Magikku::Flags::MIME
    puts magik.file(f)

    if File.directory?(f)
      Dir[File.join(f, "*")].each {|f2| ident(magik, f2) }
    end
  end

  magik = Magikku.new
  Dir["*"].each do |f|
    ident(magik,f)
  end
  magik.close
    

== Requirements

  * libmagic - The dynamic library is generally installed when buliding from 
    source, but your system may have a package available. 
    http://www.darwinsys.com/file/ 

Optional:

  * ruby-ffi - If you do not wish to compile the C bindings, or if you want to
    develop magikku, you will need to have ruby-FFI available. But, this is not
    needed for basic use under MRI (Matz Ruby Interpreter). http://github.com/ffi/ffi

== Installation

As a gem:

  (sudo)? gem install magikku

From github:
  # !first ensure you have libmagic installed.

  git clone http://github.com/emonti/magikku.git
  cd magikku
  rake compile
  rake spec # to make sure everything works

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Eric Monti. See LICENSE for details.
